Every State government has enacted certain road laws to protect its citizens. They have also enacted laws to protect animals and pedestrians. Below are some of the key road safety measures.

1. Animal Safety
Cattle, cats and dogs are allowed to roam freely. Hence, avoid hurting them or running them over while driving.

2. Cross on Zebra Crossing
The importance of road safety is lost on those who do not use the zebra crossing to cross a road! The black and white stripes are there for a reason, and for your safety, make use of it to cross the road.

3. Drinking and Driving
Among the important road safety rules is to avoid consuming alcohol and then driving. Alcohol consumption impairs cognitive functioning and hence prevents a person from being fully in control of the vehicle.

4. Exhaustion or Health Issues
Road safety rules demand that you not drive if you have some health issues. Moreover, if you are exhausted, then also it is advised not to drive.

5. Follow Traffic Lights
Be obedient to all the traffic signals. Walk when the signal shows green to walk. Also, follow traffic lights when driving.

6. Keeping to the Left
Among the safety rules on the road, a vital one is keeping to the left while walking or driving so that you do not collide with vehicles coming from the right.

7. Slow Down at Intersections
Slow down while entering the main road, crossings, intersections, and corners,

8. Turn Signals and Hand Gestures
Use the necessary signals when you are turning, slowing down or allowing some other vehicle to pass. Do not use horns in the silent zone.

9. Use of Mobile Phones
Using mobile phones while on the road can cost lives. Hence, as a road safety point, avoid using your mobile phone while on the road. 

These were the most important of the road safety rules. There are others discussed below.
10. Driving on One Way Roads
There are many one way roads in India. While driving a car, you need to be cautious of driving in the right direction, as it can be dangerous. Moreover, you should avoid parking your vehicle in a reverse direction on such a road.

These were the most important of the road safety rules. There are others discussed below.